docs(fast-data): introduce authentication & authorization docs for Control Plane (#1300)
mia-platform/documentation: docs/fast_data/runtime_management/secure_access.md

| CP_REDIS_MASTER_PASSWORD | root password to allow Redis start (not used by any service - it can be loaded from a secret when configured within the service environment variables) |
| CP_REDIS_USERNAME        | username of the Redis account to be employed by the authentication-service for accessing Redis                                                         |
| CP_REDIS_PASSWORD        | password of the Redis account to be employed by the authentication-service for accessing Redis                                                         |

<details><summary>Redis Auth Service | Configuration Example (with variables to be interpolated)</summary>

```text title=redis.conf
## GENERIC ##
port 6379
# listen on all the interfaces for incoming connections
bind 0.0.0.0

## NO DISK PERSISTENCE ##
save ""
appendonly no

## SECURITY ##
protected-mode yes

# NOTE: +@connection is necessary to be placed after -@dangerous, otherwise the user won't have the permissions to connect to Redis
user {{CP_REDIS_USERNAME}} on +@all -@dangerous +@connection allkeys allchannels >{{CP_REDIS_PASSWORD}}

# disable default user
user default off
```

</details>

### Endpoints

> Below is reported the list of endpoints that have already been created for you by the application instantiation. Please

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is reported the list of endpoints created with the Control Plane application instantiation. Please
```

| `/apps`         | authentication-service   |            -            | true                  |

Knowing these endpoints are exposed, it is now possible to configure the redirect urls that some Identity Providers, such as Okta or Auth0, require to complete
the application registration. These endpoints will be then employed during the authentication flow to constrain the redirects
the Identity Provider can perform. In this case the endpoint that should be configured are the following ones:

- Sign-in redirect URIs → `<project-base-url>/web-login/oauth/callback`
- Sign-out redirect URIs → `<project-base-url>/logout`

where `<project-base-url>` is the base url where the project of interest is exposed to.

### Collections

The authentication flow via the `authentication-service` requires also the introduction of a CRUD Collection, where
users details are saved upon successful login. These user (_subject_) information can then be employed in the authorization flow, which is
described later, in conjunction with [policies](#policies) and [roles](#roles) to ensure that only authorized users can

> visualize or interact with Fast Data runtime.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
visualize or even interact with Fast Data runtime.  
```

> By default the `Fast Data Control Plane` application creates the collection for you and instantiate the CRUD Service,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default the `Fast Data Control Plane` application creates the collection for you and instantiates the CRUD Service,
```

              }
            ]
          },
          {
            "name": "nameSearch",
            "type": "normal",
            "unique": false,
            "fields": [
              {
                "name": "email",
                "order": 1
              },
              {
                "name": "name",
                "order": 1
              },
              {
                "name": "__STATE__",
                "order": 1
              }
            ]
          },
          {
            "name": "upsertSupport",
            "type": "normal",
            "unique": false,
            "fields": [
              {
                "name": "providerId",
                "order": 1
              },
              {
                "name": "providerUserId",
                "order": 1
              },
              {
                "name": "realm",
                "order": 1
              }
            ]
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  },
  "metadata": {
    "branchName": "",
    "exportTimestamp": "2024-04-05T08:26:54.472Z",
    "isImported": false,
    "pathRefType": "revisions",
    "projectId": "",
    "projectName": ""
  }
}
```

</details>

### Advanced

> In this section are described the tweaks to be carried out on the API Gateway (Envoy) that enhance the interaction with
> the runtime system and allows the solution to properly work in your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section are described the tweaks to be carried out on the API Gateway (Envoy) that enhance the interaction with
the runtime system and allow the solution to properly work in your project.
```

> These modifications should be inserted in the proper file in the **advanced** tab of the Console _Design_ section, under

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These modifications should be inserted in the proper file in the **Advanced** section of the Console _Design_ area, under
```

the key `api-gateway-envoy`.

![Console advanced tab in Design section showing 'api-gateway-envoy' configuration](img/advanced_section_envoy.png)

:::caution

> Please notice that the following configuration are specific for the `frontend` listener of Envoy. In case it has been

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please notice that the following configurations are specific for the `frontend` listener of Envoy. In case it has been
```

decided to expose the Fast Data Runtime Management system under a [different listener](/development_suite/api-console/api-design/listeners.md),
please update the configuration accordingly.
:::

#### Automatic redirect upon receiving 401 HTTP error

This configuration edit should be inserted in the file `local-replies.yml` and it enforces a redirect to the login

> page every time a 401 HTTP error is encountered by the system. This ensure that the user authenticates before returning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
page every time a 401 HTTP error is encountered by the system. This ensures that the users authenticate before returning
```

            <title>302 Found</title>
        </head>
      </html>
  headers_to_add:
    - header:
        key: "Location"
        value: "/web-login?appId={{CP_APP_ID}}&providerId={{CP_PROVIDER_ID}}&redirect=%REQ(:PATH)%"
      append: false
    - header:
        key: "Set-Cookie"
        value: "sid=; Max-Age=0"
      append: false
```

#### Extend functionalities of gateway listener

This configuration edit should be inserted in the file `patches.yml` and it performs the following changes:

- introduce the support to [_Websocket connection upgrade_](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Protocol_upgrade_mechanism#upgrading_to_a_websocket_connection),
  which is achieved by specifying the [`upgrade_type`](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.29.3/api-v3/extensions/filters/network/http_connection_manager/v3/http_connection_manager.proto#envoy-v3-api-msg-extensions-filters-network-http-connection-manager-v3-httpconnectionmanager-upgradeconfig) under the `filter_chains.0.filters.0.typed_config.upgrade_configs` key
- override the default headers that are added to the HTTP response, so that `X-Frame-Options` is removed and the frontend
  can be embedded as iframe

> It is important to observer that both modifications affect the first [filter chain](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.29.3/api-v3/config/listener/v3/listener_components.proto#config-listener-v3-filterchain) and subsequently the first [filter](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.29.3/api-v3/config/listener/v3/listener_components.proto#envoy-v3-api-msg-config-listener-v3-filter) definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to observe that both modifications affect the first [filter chain](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.29.3/api-v3/config/listener/v3/listener_components.proto#config-listener-v3-filterchain) and subsequently the first [filter](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.29.3/api-v3/config/listener/v3/listener_components.proto#envoy-v3-api-msg-config-listener-v3-filter) definition.
```

- listener_name: frontend
  'filter_chains.0.filters.0.typed_config.upgrade_configs':
    upgrade_type: "websocket"
  'filter_chains.0.filters.0.typed_config.route_config.response_headers_to_add': [
    {
      "header": {
        "key": "X-Content-Type-Options",
        "value": "nosniff"
      },
      "append": false
    },
    {
      "header": {
        "key": "X-Download-Options",
        "value": "noopen"
      },
      "append": false
    },
    {
      "header": {
        "key": "Referrer-Policy",
        "value": "strict-origin-when-cross-origin"
      },
      "append": false
    }
  ]
```

---

:::note
In case your project does not employ Envoy as API Gateway, please remember to adapt your API Gateway configuration
accordingly to support the runtime management system features, such as [_Websocket connection upgrade_](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Protocol_upgrade_mechanism#upgrading_to_a_websocket_connection).
:::

## Authorization

In this section are described which resources should be configured in order to properly grant the access
to the Fast Data Runtime Management solution only to authorized users.

### Services

#### Authorization Service

> This service is introduced with the application creation and it is already preconfigured with all the necessary configs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This service is introduced with the application creation and it is already preconfigured with all the necessary configurations.
```

> In case the service already existed in your project, please ensure the following environment variable on the service contains

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case the service already exists in your project, please ensure the following environment variables on the service contain
```

|----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| HEADERS_TO_PROXY     | connection,upgrade,sec-websocket-protocol,sec-websocket-version,x-request-id,request-id,cookie,authorization,client-type,host,x-forwarded-host |
| USERINFO_URL         | http://authentication-service/userinfo                                                                                                         |

In order to support real-time updates in the Fast Data Runtime Management system, it is important to allow proxying the following
headers:
- [`connection`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Connection)
- [`upgrade`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Upgrade)
- [`sec-websocket-protocol`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Protocol_upgrade_mechanism#websocket-specific_headers)
- [`sec-websocket-version`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Protocol_upgrade_mechanism#websocket-specific_headers)

#### Rönd

> Once all the services are ready, it is necessary to protect them. To achieve so, in this guide we are going to rely on [Rönd](https://rond-authz.io/),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once all the services are properly configured, it is necessary to protect them. To achieve so, in this guide we are going to rely on [Rönd](https://rond-authz.io/),
```

> which allows to define for each service's endpoints the proper access policies. Hence, let's enable Rönd sidecar for the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which allows to define for each service's endpoint the proper access policies. Hence, let's enable Rönd sidecar for the following
```

two services:

- `control-plane` → to regulate who can retrieve Fast Data runtime configuration and change its runtime status

> - `crud-service` → to regulate who can access roles and bindings (discussed later)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `crud-service` → to regulate who can access roles and bindings (discussed in the following paragraphs)
```

> An example of Rönd enabled for these services can be observed in the image:

Reviewer: Here we can mention that enabling Rond is possible through the Authorization section in Console Design Area (eventually with also a link to redirect to that docs page)

  "creatorId" : "public",
  "email" : "alice@platform.world",
  "groups" : [
    // here the admin group has been added to the user
    "admin"
  ],
  "name" : "Alice",
  "updatedAt" : ISODate("2024-04-08T16:23:12.364+0000"),
  "updaterId" : "public",
  "username" : ""
}
```

Please notice that until no user is assigned to the `admin` group, then no user would be able to manage the users, roles and bindings.
:::

## Tips

Currently, the configurations described in the previous sections regard a single project deployed in a single namespace. In fact,
users, roles and permissions should be defined on the database for each deployed runtime (for example _non-production_ and _production_ environments).
Similarly, different projects should declare their own users, roles and bindings.

One possible manner to share users, roles and bindings across multiple projects could be creating a MongoDB database dedicated
to users management. The collections defined within this database then would be shared by all the projects by sharing the
connection to it in the _Authentication Management_ tab.

![Rönd configuration in Authentication Management tab](img/rond_shared_config.png)

> In the image above is shown that Rönd uses a dedicated MongoDB connection (read from a secret) to a database employed specifically for management of Fast Data Runtime users.

Reviewer: I would describe more in depth this helpful tip
